there's filmmaking and film criticism
there are two completely separate things
two completely separate categories and
we might even think of one as
antagonistic to the other one is being
the opposite of the other but you know
in fact when you really think about it a
little bit philosophically film
criticism is a positive contribution to
the art of filmmaking still two separate
things the guy who makes the film and
the guy who evaluates the film
criticizes the film says how it could
have been better
two separate things philosophy and the
critique of philosophy are not two
separate things it would be slightly
observed for someone to criticize a film
critic by complaining all you do is
criticize why don't you go make your own
film instead of criticizing this movie
that Selden theaters is saying it's so
bad the answer you'd have to give back
is hey these are two separate things
filmmaking is a legitimate art form but
what I'm doing as a critic of the film
is also legitimate is also important
it's also a positive contribution to
filmmaking it would be utterly absurd
and a bafflingly stupid to say to
someone why did you write this critique
of Kantian philosophy why did you write
this critique of Plato Socrates
Aristotle the philosopher maybe why did
you write this critique of philosophy
instead of writing your own philosophy
the critique of philosophy is philosophy
they're not two separate things in the
act of writing and explanation of what I
consider to be wrong with the philosophy
of Plato or Immanuel
I am declaring I am explaining my own
philosophy there aren't two categories
here there's only one why would anyone
criticize Bernie Sanders instead of
declaring their own political philosophy
why would anyone criticize Donald Trump
instead of engaging positively in their
own political mission purpose party in
the pursuit of politics do you see the
fallacy at the bottom of this way of
thinking the critique of politics and
politics these are not two separate
things in the act of criticizing Bernie
Sanders you are declaring you are
announcing you are explaining your own
political philosophy you are
articulating what goals you're pursuing
of politics and how you think you should
reach it right you are making a positive
contribution to politics even if Bernie
Sanders supporters perceives your
critique as something negative
the act of criticizing Donald Trump is
in itself and of itself politics it's
not the opposite of politics see this
fallacy of thinking film criticism
something different from filmmaking
right criticism of Donald Trump is not
something other than politics it's not
even something negative it's a positive
contribution to politics there are not
two categories here critique is
philosophy critique is politics there
are not two antagonistic and opposed
categories I received some criticism
from another youtuber that I found quite
laughable and quite stupid and quite
counterproductive and this is the
fundamental misapprehension
misconception or conceit at the basis of
his complaints against myself he
complains
that my YouTube channel is only a
critique of vegan politics that it's
only a critique of what's wrong with the
vegan movement that this channel is not
in itself and of itself vegan activism
and he's wrong the critique of activism
is activism it's the same full ocean no
take to keep rolling it's the same
fallacious mode of reasoning again and
again and again I do not feel the need
to justify what I do here on YouTube in
terms of the outcomes but the outcomes
are interesting they're interesting to
talk about they're interesting to
reflect on and they're part of how I
justify spending time and money on this
hobby on YouTube which is in some ways a
success and in some ways a failure
I have reached over 4.6 million views on
this YouTube channel
if I were instead to imitate earthling
IDI if I were instead to imitate James
ASPI and stand on a street corner and
talk to strangers one by one there's
absolutely no way I could reach 4
million people there's no way I could
reach 1 million people per year and
roughly speaking this year I'll get
about 1 million views on this channel
could be better could be could be only
800,000 if it's a bad year could be 1.2
million if it's a good year that's the
kind of range we're talking about here
ok so this is a very simple measure of
the extent of the influence the the
outcome of the activism in that sense
there's another really interesting
question of depth we watched a video
earlier today of James ASPI talking to a
muscular American guy with his shirt off
who had no particular respect for James
asked me no reason why you would James
asked was just some weirdo on a street
corner talking to no particular respect
for James ASCII espy's views philosophy
is ethics of animal rights but asthma
and no reason why should this is just a
conversation between two strangers of
the street and I think the video was 20
minutes long I
don't know if the unedited conversation
was even longer than that but you could
spend 20 minutes talking to four million
strangers on the street if you could
reach the same numbers this YouTube
generation and you would never have the
depth of influence the degree of a
meaningful relationship that I have on
this channel with people every day
I had about three young men write to me
at the same time this is about two weeks
ago so quite recently both three young
men wrote to me all at the same time one
of them was 21 years old and he started
watching my youtube channel when he was
16 I have now been a major formative
influence in his life he's heard me talk
about philosophies or if he talked about
politics he served me talked about
veganism another one had been watched
the channel for two or three years and
again I think his current age about 20
so again his late teenage years we
started to ask himself these questions
seriously watch my channel he heard what
I had to say about these things he heard
my reasoning and why did he start
watching my channel why did he care
about what I have to say it's it's not
because I have a pretty face it's not
it's not because I'm offering you a
weight loss cure telling you how to do
200 push-ups a day or something right in
that kid's case or that young man's case
now he was a kid at the time he came to
my YouTube channel because he liked my
interpretation of the writings of george
RR martin science fiction author or
fantasy author might have some videos
interpreting these short stories in his
books and he said wow you know what you
said it with us so he established a kind
of intellectual respect for me or a
sense of kinship with me he respected
what I had to say I actually built
literature right and then on that basis
you start to take an interest in what I
have to say about politics history how
to live a meaningful life there are
other people who have discovered this
channel because they were trying to quit
video games they were at rest in what I
said of avidians there were people who
discover this channel because of what I
said about antidepressants SSRI drugs
mental health self-improvement on and on
alright so as absurd as it may seems if
I were to come on YouTube now and do
absolutely nothing but make videos
unrelated to veganism
even that could be evaluated as a form
of vegan activism with very measurable
life-changing outcomes for the people
who are drawn to this channel because
they're interested in what I have to say
on some completely unrelated topic and
then once they've established this kind
of kinship with me this kind of respect
for me interest in what I have to say
and who I am and why then they become
interested why did discover come vegan
what does he have to say about veganism
there's this long history of the you
sense channel right and this is without
even getting into the examples in the
discussion of how really deeply
meaningful it is for people who are
already vegan who care about veganism to
connect with and relate to the critique
of the vegan movement that's presented
in my channel now this guy criticized my
channel at one point I think he was kind
of losing faith and what he had to say
himself he says you know hyperbolic
over-the-top way oh well what kind of
person even would become vegan because
they saw the video son on
aisel Meszaros channel i nabela see how
much it fair question but I think he was
faltering because even as he said that
out loud he could already start to think
through the answer right precisely the
kind of person who doesn't respond
positively to [ __ ] half-truths lies
cult-like recruitment tactics the kind
of person who's quite ornery independent
free-thinking critical the sort of
person who is not easily impressed by
earthling yet I think some of the
hardest people to convert to veganism
are precisely the people who are drawn
in through my channel I think some of
the people who are the most valuable in
terms of that what the intellectually
can contribute to veganism are the kind
of people who respond positively to
what's in my channel you guys so this
very simple question who wants to hear a
bunch of lies about how there's nothing
wrong with the vegan movement and what
kind of person is going to respond
positively to a down-to-earth in-depth
discussion of what's wrong with the
vegan movement in what ways we're
succeeding but in what ways were failing
and how we can do better what kind of
personality is that second to first
did that that sound like a bad person to
you that's someone you don't what to
reach out to even if you were doing on
the street activism like James asked me
like earthling ed don't you think that
could be a positive wonderful
conversation if you had someone
approached you said look I am kind of
sort of interested in veganism but I
notice a lot of things wrong with the
movement some people some would respond
positively to a 100% cult leader like
responds flatly denying that anything's
wrong with feeding it everything so how
can how can you say that how can you sow
what do you mean there's nothing wrong
with our cult nothing's gone nobody's in
prison nobody's been accused of
terrorism you know nobody's been accused
of sexual assault no none of these
problems you've heard about our call no
nobody's nobody's complaining about
millions of dollars disappearing and
being wasted no no don't eat more money
there's no nobody's even questioning
where the money goes or what happened to
those millions of dollars okay
maybe maybe some people would respond
positively to that 100 percent dishonest
cult leader approach right you can
imagine what sort of person that would
be but just take the moment and think
honestly what kind of person will
respond positively instead you saying
yeah you know what there's a lot wrong
with the movement you know what millions
of the [ __ ] have been wasted millions
of dollars disappeared there have been
sex scandals there have been corruption
scandals there have been people who went
to prison for terrorism there having
people who talked about violence and
there been some people who are racist
and so on yeah oh that's true but you
know what you have to make an ethical
commitment are you gonna keep on making
excuses for being an adult human being
who gets down on his hands and knees
underneath a cow to drink the milk out
of its utter are you gonna pretend
that's natural and normal and necessary
are you gonna keep on making excuses for
this fundamentally observed part of our
culture or are you gonna challenge it
are you gonna say hey I can do better
than my own grandparents and you know
what there's there's a lot wrong with
our movement but I'm actually willing to
examine that I'm willing to talk about
it I'm willing
talk to you right now about what could
be better five years in the future 20
years in the future so and so what what
kind of person is gonna respond possibly
okay
the fundamental miss approach and people
are burdened with is that the film
critic is the enemy of the filmmaker and
that somehow the creation of film or the
creation of philosophy or the creativity
that goes on within politics is inimical
to the critique of these things and it's
not the critique of what's wrong with
politics is itself a vital positive
contribution of politics that is part of
the way forward for politics even if you
supported the Republican Party in the
United States of America the critique of
what's wrong with the Republican Party
would be a tremendously important part
of that process right the critique of
Donald Trump is not just something
that's done by his enemies it's
something that's done by his supporters
it's something that's done by his own
employees like his press agent
you know his public relations staff and
so on and so forth okay critique is not
taking a step backwards it's a step
forwards and I'm here on YouTube doing
that alone and with each and every video
I upload I'm asking who else wants to
take that step forward with me and if
it's not you then who